   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index N.Y. / Region Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by New York Democrats See Special Election Win as Good Sign for ’18 Image Christine Pellegrino, a Democrat, on Tuesday. She defeated her Republican opponent in a special legislative election in the Ninth Assembly District on Long Island. Credit Danielle Finkelstein By  Lisa W. Foderaro May 24, 2017 ALBANY — There were two special legislative elections in New York on Tuesday, both won by Democrats. The outcome of one was a foregone conclusion, the other an utter surprise — especially given the convincing margin of victory by the Democrat, Christine Pellegrino. Ms. Pellegrino defeated her Republican opponent, Tom Gargiulo, in the Ninth Assembly District on Long Island, 58 percent to 42 percent, even though the district is heavily Republican and President Trump won it with 60 percent of the vote. Political observers are paying close attention to special elections across the nation this year as potential harbingers of what may happen in the midterm contests in 2018. Ms. Pellegrino’s success appears to have drawn that kind of attention, at least in New York. “This sends a strong message to Democrats and Republicans,” said Bill Lipton, the director of the New York Working Families Party , which endorsed her. “To Democrats, it says that they can win in Trump country when they support bold, populist champions who put working people’s issues front and center. “To Republicans,” he continued, “it says Donald Trump is a huge ball and chain around their necks at this moment as more working people see the federal government trying to take away their health care and their rights. The progressive base is fired up.” The result may embolden Democrats in New York to put more money and resources in races across the board, or possibly to encourage neophytes to run. Ms. Pellegrino, a schoolteacher in Baldwin and a union activist, continued teaching during her campaign, which was joined by hundreds of volunteers who knocked on doors in Massapequa, Babylon and West Islip, on Long Island’s South Shore. She served as a delegate for the Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders last year. With her victory, she fills a seat left vacant when Joseph Saladino, a Republican, left the Assembly to become the supervisor of Oyster Bay, his hometown. Ms. Pellegrino’s win may also prompt some Republicans to put distance between themselves and Mr. Trump, or at least some of his more divisive policies. Republicans have been on the defensive in special elections since Mr. Trump’s victory, and special elections will soon fill two congressional seats. In Montana, the Republican candidate, Greg Gianforte, is considered the favorite in an election on Thursday; in Georgia, a runoff on June 20 between Jon Ossoff, a Democrat, and Karen Handel, a Republican, is viewed as more of a tossup. Image Tom Gargiulo lost to Ms. Pellegrino, 58 percent to 42 percent, even though the district is heavily Republican. Credit Ed Betz for The New York Times State races are also attracting attention, including Ms. Pellegrino’s win and a state special legislative election in New Hampshire , where the Democrat, Edith DesMarais, defeated Matthew Plache, a Republican, in Carroll County. Mr. Trump captured that district by seven points in November. “Republicans should absolutely be concerned,” said William F. B. O’Reilly, a Republican consultant and a partner in the November Team, a political consulting firm. “Two Republican canaries died in the coal mine yesterday.” He added: “It has to be seen as a red flag. Special elections are a great measure of voter intensity. These are low-turnout affairs where the most motivated voters turn out. Trump voters and other Republicans simply didn’t show up, and voters from the left did.” There was also growing pressure on Democratic state lawmakers in New York to come together to fight Mr. Trump’s policies in Washington. Hours after the conclusion of the other special election in New York, a race in which a State Senate seat in Harlem was won by a Democrat, Brian Benjamin, national Democrats called on eight renegade state senators — a group known collectively as the Independent Democratic Conference — to end an alliance that has allowed Republicans to maintain control of that chamber. “Americans are seeing threats to their health care, fair wages and access to the ballot box,” said Representative Keith Ellison, Democrat of Minnesota and a deputy chairman of the Democratic National Committee. “If this assault is going to be stopped, then Democrats must come together and fight for working people together,” he said. “That’s why I am willing to do whatever might be helpful to bring together a Democratic majority in the New York State Senate.” The State Assembly, which Democrats have long controlled, immediately welcomed Ms. Pellegrino to Albany. Carl E. Heastie, the speaker, pointed out that the chamber now had a record 42 women, out of 150 members. (With the election on Tuesday, there are 108 Democrats and 42 Republicans.) Mr. Heastie praised her work on behalf of students and “progressive policies,” saying she would be an “outspoken advocate for her constituents.” In March, Democrats in Suffolk County, led by Richard Schaffer, were set to nominate a different candidate in the special election. But the Working Families Party saw Ms. Pellegrino as an inspiring choice who could win, and pushed local Democrats to support her. Steve Bellone, the Suffolk County executive and a Democrat, said on Wednesday that Ms. Pellegrino’s victory could be a “game changer” for political candidates across New York. “It has significant statewide implications and even national implications,” he said. “What it says very clearly is that Democrats can compete in any district.” Mr. Bellone added: “This district is a good barometer because it’s in the suburbs and in an area where Trump won handily just months ago. Previously, a Democrat wouldn’t even think of mounting a serious campaign there.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A 25 of the New York edition with the headline: Democrats See Win in Special Election On Long Island as Good Sign for 2018 . Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Related Coverage Stipend Scandal Fuels Divide Among New York’s Democratic State Senators May 23, 2017 Image Runoff Vote Keeps Georgia’s 6th District a Battleground April 19, 2017 Image Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              