   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Politics Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Trump Attacks Sessions Again, This Time Over the Acting F.B.I. Director Video President Trump made a career of firing people on TV. Now, he is expressing his disappointment with Attorney General Jeff Sessions, but has not uttered two key words. Published On July 26, 2017 Credit Image by Doug Mills/The New York Times By  Eileen Sullivan July 26, 2017 WASHINGTON — President Trump publicly attacked Attorney General Jeff Sessions for a third consecutive day on Wednesday, questioning why Mr. Sessions has not fired the acting director of the F.B.I. over his wife’s political ties to Hillary Clinton. Mr. Trump has already criticized the deputy F.B.I. director, Andrew G. McCabe, who took over the agency when Mr. Trump fired James B. Comey, the previous director. Mr. McCabe has remained in place while the president’s nominee to run the F.B.I., Christopher A. Wray, goes through the confirmation process. By adding Mr. McCabe to a growing list of what the president views as Mr. Sessions’s management failures, Mr. Trump spurred more speculation on Wednesday that he was considering firing his attorney general, one of the earliest supporters in Washington of Mr. Trump’s bid for the White House. Why didn't A.G. Sessions replace Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe, a Comey friend who was in charge of Clinton investigation but got.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2017  The new White House communications director, Anthony Scaramucci, said on CNN on Wednesday that he did not know whether the president wanted a new attorney general. Image Andrew G. McCabe, the acting director of the F.B.I., during a news conference this month. Credit Tom Brenner/The New York Times Mr. Trump began his public assault on Mr. Sessions last week in an interview with The New York Times. The president said he never would have appointed Mr. Sessions had he known Mr. Sessions was going to recuse himself from the Justice Department’s investigation into whether the Trump campaign coordinated with Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. In the same interview, Mr. Trump suggested that Mr. McCabe had his own conflict of interest. Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill, received nearly $500,000 in 2015 for a state Senate run in Virginia from a political action committee affiliated with Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia, who is close friends with Hillary and Bill Clinton. Ms. McCabe lost the race. Mr. Trump repeated his suggestion about Mr. McCabe in a Twitter post on Tuesday. Mr. Trump did not raise this concern about Mr. McCabe publicly in May when he interviewed him as a candidate to be the new F.B.I. director.  Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook , Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter . Related Coverage In Trump’s World, ‘Very Weak’ Sessions Twists in Wind July 25, 2017 Image In Taking Aim at His Attorney General, Trump Tests Sessions’s Views July 24, 2017 Image Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              