   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Arts Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Women in the Spotlight at Museums Image A suffrage parade in 1915 on Fifth Avenue, on view at “Beyond Suffrage” at the Museum of the City of New York. Credit Rose Schneiderman Collection, Tamiment Library & Robert F. Wagner Archives, New York University By  The New York Times March 12, 2018 Women’s rights, and art by and about women, are the subjects of exhibitions at a number of museums this year. Image A still from the documentary “We Rise” on view at the New-York Historical Society. Credit New-York Historical Society • In New York, the Center for Women’s History at the New-York Historical Society will mark its one-year anniversary with several programs. Exhibitions include the Joyce B. Cowin Women’s History Gallery, which focuses on women who have made an impact on the American experience through activism, art, literature and politics. Women’s Voices, an interactive, multimedia digital experience, showcases stories of famous and forgotten women and the movements and groups to which they belonged. “We Rise,” a documentary narrated by Meryl Streep, highlights the diverse group of women and ideas that arose in New York before the passage of the 19th Amendment, which gave women the right to vote in 1920. Image A Women’s Political Union pennant, c. 1917, on view at “Beyond Suffrage” at the Museum of the City of New York. Credit Museum of the City of New York • Across town at the Museum of the City of New York, “ Beyond Suffrage : A Century of New York Women in Politics” (through Aug. 5) takes a long look at political activism by women in New York City, from the fight to win the vote (granted to women in New York State in 1917) through current issues. Included is a look at how women often toiled behind the scenes for causes like health and labor, and the role New York played in women’s rights efforts in the 1960s. Image A suffragette poster parade from 1911 is on view at “Votes for Women” at the Museum of London. Credit H. Searjeant, via Museum of London • Suffrage is also on museum-goers’ minds across the pond, in the presentations of “Votes for Women” at the Museum of London (through Jan. 6, 2019). The exhibition marks the 100th anniversary of the Representation of the People Act , which allowed women over 30 to vote if they or their husband met certain property qualifications, and included are items from the large collection about suffrage at the museum. The center of the fight for the vote moved to the capital in 1906 and, according to the museum, “for the next eight years, the fight to win the vote became a highly public and, at times, violent struggle played out against the backdrop of Edwardian London.” Image Jean Shin’s “Hide” from 2004. Other examples of her work are on display at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Credit via Philadelphia Museum of Art • The Philadelphia Museum of Art will highlight the creations of a number of women who work in varied media. An exhibition (March 24 to July 15) by Jean Shin marks the museum’s first single-artist display of works by a contemporary female Korean-American artist. Ms. Shin, who works in New York, is known for the huge installations she makes by deconstructing and rebuilding everyday objects, like clothing and shoes, to tell stories about identity, society and community. In April, the museum will present two large sculptures by the German-born artist Ursula von Rydingsvard in a yearlong show that coincides with a major exhibition at the Fabric Workshop and Museum , also in Philadelphia, from April 27 to Aug. 26. On display at the art museum will be “Bronze Bowl With Lace,” which is nearly 20 feet tall, and “Elegantka II.” A third show will look at works by the abstract painter Agnes Martin (May 19 - August) And, finally, a new video installation by Rachel Rose (May 2 - Aug. 19) will have its premiere at the museum. The project, set in 16th-century agrarian England, examines the links between “reality and perception, history and coincidence.” Image Red’s “Anna May Wong.” Credit Red • Works by the New York artist Red , in a show called “100 Women and More,” will be on display through May 7 at Soka University of America in Aliso Viejo, Calif. Portraits of influential women throughout history, dating as far back as 1500 B.C., are created through burning or ink on 5-by-7 wooden ovals, along with short biographies. Image The fashion label Rodarte will have an exhibition at the National Museum of  Women in the Arts in Washington. Credit Dan & Corina Lecca • Later this year, the National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington will turn to fashion for its exhibition on Rodarte (Nov. 2 to Feb. 10, 2019). The American label is the brainchild of sisters Kate and Laura Mulleavy of Southern California, who are the first designers to be recognized with a solo exhibition organized by the museum. The focus of the show is to place the work of Rodarte “within the landscape of contemporary art and fashion,” according to the museum. The show is expected to include about 90 ensembles, as well as accessories, photograph and videos. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F 4 of the New York edition with the headline: Spotlight on Women . Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Related Coverage Judy Chicago, the Godmother Feb. 7, 2018 Image Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              