   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Weddings Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Elizabeth Deutsch, Isaac Arnsdorf Image March 4, 2018 Elizabeth Burnat Deutsch and Isaac Arnsdorf were married March 3 at District Winery in Washington. J. Paul Oetken, a judge of the Southern District of New York officiated, with Cornelia T. L. Pillard, a judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, taking part. The couple met at Yale, from which each graduated, she summa cum laude and he cum laude, and from which Ms. Deutsch also received a law degree. Ms. Deutsch, 29, is a law clerk for Judge Pillard in Washington, and previously clerked for Judge Oetken. She also holds two masters degrees as a Marshall Scholar: one in English from the University of Cambridge, the other in gender studies from the London School of Economics. She is the daughter of Jane Burnat Deutsch and Stephen B. Deutsch of Lexington, Mass. Her father is a retired partner in the Boston law firm Foley Hoag. Her mother is a retired admissions director for a graduate program at M.I.T. Mr. Arnsdorf, 28, is a reporter covering national politics for ProPublica, the investigative journalism nonprofit organization. He is the son of Maxine Ellenberg Arnsdorf of Silver Spring, Md., and the late Dennis A. Arnsdorf. The groom’s mother is a clinical psychologist in private practice in Silver Spring. His father was a small business marketing consultant, also based in Silver Spring. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page ST 15 of the New York edition with the headline: Elizabeth Deutsch,  Isaac Arnsdorf . Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              