   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Business Day Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Roma, March Madness Gift William Hill Revenue Bounce By  Reuters May 8, 2018 (Reuters) - Roma's shock defeat of Barcelona and a surge in U.S. March Madness college basketball betting drove a 12 percent rise in online net revenue for British bookmaker William Hill in the first 17 weeks of this year, the company said on Tuesday. Net revenue at William Hill Plc for the first 17 weeks of 2018 was 3 percent higher compared to the same period a year ago, the company said in a trading statement, as a recovery at its online business offset a decline in high street betting. Shares in the company were just over 1 percent higher in early trading in London. Roma surprised pundits last month by bouncing back from a 4-1 first leg defeat in the Champions League against the new Spanish champions to win the second leg 3-0 and the tie on goal difference. The bookmaker also said Arsenal's dismal away performance in the Premier League this season has helped boost margins. Its U.S. operations saw a 17 percent rise in the amount wagered thanks to a boost from basketball wagering during the annual college tournament. Revenue from the company's chain of betting shops fell 4 percent with amounts wagered slipping 13 percent, hurt by weaker performance in horse-racing. William Hill also said it was still awaiting the outcome of the UK Triennial Review aimed at cutting the top stakes at Fixed Odd Betting Terminals (FOBTs). An FOBT is a touch-screen machine that allows players to bet on the outcome of various games such as roulette. The machines have been dubbed the crack cocaine of gambling by campaigners who argue that they let players lose money too quickly, leading to addiction and wider social problems. The government said in October it would reduce the maximum stake on in-shop fixed odds betting terminals (FOBTs) to between 2 and 50 pounds from 100 pounds to help tackle problem gambling. (Reporting by Rahul B in Bengaluru; editing by Patrick Graham) Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              