   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Book Review Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Letters to the Editor April 20, 2018 Erasmus and Luther To the Editor: I appreciate Rebecca Newberger Goldstein’s complimentary review of my book “Fatal Discord” (April 1) and her lively description of my account of the rivalry between Erasmus and Luther. At the end, however, she seriously mischaracterizes my views on Erasmus. She writes that I “omitted Erasmus’s strongest lines” in his dialogue with Luther on free will and thus failed to make clear that Erasmus doubted “Luther’s absolute rule of faith” and was “justifiably skeptical of a self-verifying criterion for truth that can generate the kind of knowledge Luther claimed for himself.” In fact, I spend several pages describing and quoting from Erasmus’s text. I note that he considered free will “one of many abstract matters in the Bible” whose meaning “remained elusive and about which he would consider himself a skeptic if the church allowed it.” While Goldstein states that my book presents Erasmus as a “self-protective pragmatist,” I actually emphasize his principled opposition to Luther’s dogmatism, his exasperation with Luther’s “passing off his own interpretation of the Bible as God’s Word” and his embrace of pluralism and concord. Goldstein also writes that I consider Erasmus’s influence on today’s world “faint.” Yet I devote an entire chapter to showing how his humanist ideals (and his support for a united, borderless Europe), which were suppressed or forgotten for centuries after his death, were revived after World War II, becoming a foundation for the European Union. One of my main goals in this project was to restore Erasmus’s place in the Western intellectual tradition. MICHAEL MASSING NEW YORK Naming Names To the Editor: As a footnote to Dava Sobel’s review of Claire L. Evans’s “Broad Band” (March 25), note that Yale University, having “unnamed” Calhoun College for the slaveholding John C. Calhoun, renamed it for Rear Adm. Grace Hopper, whom Sobel calls “the Navy’s much decorated queen of software.” JAYLYN OLIVO BROOKLINE, MASS. The Common Good To the Editor: Reading Michael J. Sandel’s review of “The Common Good,” by Robert B. Reich (April 8), I was reminded of a quote by Thomas Jefferson: “But every difference of opinion is not a difference of principle. We have called by different names brethren of the same principle.” It seems that Reich may be on to something that all our concerned American “brethren” need to hear! R. A. ERBETTA MARBLEHEAD, MASS. The Times welcomes letters from readers. Letters for publication should include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. Letters should be addressed to The Editor, The New York Times Book Review, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. The email address is books@nytimes.com . Letters may be edited for length and clarity. We regret that because of the large volume of mail received, we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters.  Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter , sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar . And listen to us on the Book Review podcast . A version of this article appears in print on , on Page 6 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Letters . Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              