   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Crosswords & Games Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Wordplay Who Made My Puzzle?: Sam Trabucco Image The crossword constructor, Sam Trabucco, enjoying time in Maine. Credit Sam Trabucco By  Deb Amlen April 18, 2018 SPECIAL POST — In this month’s “Who Made My Puzzle?” the spotlight shines on Sam Trabucco, who has made his mark after publishing only 10 crossword puzzles in The New York Times. Meet Sam Trabucco Where do you currently reside? San Francisco, California. Where and when was your first puzzle published? I somehow got a poem published in a book of children’s poetry in the second grade, and, looking back, I’d call that poem quite puzzling. My first actual puzzle was published on October 14, 2015 at BuzzFeed . If you have not done any of the BuzzFeed puzzles, beware: they’ve got a … different tone from more standard newspaper fare. I miss it! When was your first New York Times crossword published? My first New York Times crossword came out just two weeks after the BuzzFeed one. I had to go to seven stores before I could find a physical copy of The New York Times. Leave it to a millennial not to be able to find a newspaper. How did you get into puzzling? What is your first memory of solving? I’ve always enjoyed puzzles of various sorts — I was the kid who would rather figure out the Towers of Hanoi than … uh … play tag? Is that what normal kids did? That’s what I’ve read. I also really enjoyed playing Scrabble growing up, as well as more general word games. During my junior year of high school I went to my first M.I.T. Mystery Hunt which is where “paper puzzling” started morphing into a passion for me, and I soon started solving crosswords regularly. What made you decide to try your hand at making a crossword puzzle? The summer before senior year of high school I got it into my head that making a crossword must be something I can do — it’s basically the same as playing Scrabble! Little did I realize how difficult it really is. I decided I wanted to try making one for my high school’s newspaper, and it’s an abomination that we printed it. Among its funnier flaws was the presence of the entry IS IT TEN? clued as “Are we eating brunch?” That terrible, terrible puzzle (made in Excel!) might have been a one-off, fun project I did and forgot about a few weeks later, if not for the auspicious introduction of David Quarfoot to my high school’s math department my senior year. He saw my pitiful attempt and one-upped me by writing an actually good crossword for the school paper, but he also encouraged me to start writing crosswords seriously. He showed me the software people use to help write good puzzles, as well as where to find a quality word list, not to mention a ton of other advice. My initial efforts improved, but I just didn’t get super invested right away for whatever reason, and my interest petered out. I put crosswords on the back burner during college, never making another serious attempt until spring of my senior year — I’m not sure what spurred this on exactly, but it was probably the free time I had while also embracing the “senior spring” attitude. But that attempt turned into two, which turned into 10, which has now turned into … many. Why do you do this to yourself? To rescue my hometown, Natick, Mass. ’s heinous reputation among crossword people. For real, I was very confused when I first got into crosswords and read about “Naticks” considering I did spend 18 years of my life there. I even used to watch the marathon from there, like the clue mentions! Seriously, I love making crosswords because I find grid construction to be a fun and satisfying problem to solve, and theme development/clever cluing to be nice creative outlets. I also really enjoy sharing my puzzles with friends and watching them solve/hearing their feedback. I’m not sure what it is, but making something which provides people I care about a fun experience is really gratifying to me, and crosswords are the medium that’s best allowed me to do that (unless you count karaoke, which my drunken self absolutely does). Do you use a computer software constructing program and, if so, which one? What do you like about it? I mostly use CrossFire for grid construction. To be honest, I primarily use it over Crossword Compiler because I have a Mac — I’ve used and liked both. I really like CrossFire’s user interface, and the grid-filling software in general is just such an improvement over by-hand construction that it’s difficult to imagine myself being anywhere near as strong at grid design as I am without it. The software, in tandem with my word list (formed by taking Jeff Chen’s word list , adding a bunch of stuff manually and via web scraping, and scoring some stuff with a simple algorithm based mostly on Google hits) allow me to make much better grids than I used to be able to in a fraction of the time. How many hours a week, on average, do you spend on refining your tools, like your word list? This is sort of difficult to count. Whenever I hear either a “fun phrase” or a new, crossword-friendly name or word (e.g. OMI, NIETO), I put it into my Notes app and add it to my list later. I also sometimes discover a new corpus of idioms or movies or something that I add programmatically to my word list. These tasks vary in time investment, but I’d say it averages to about one hour of active management per month, plus whatever time I spend manually adjusting scores while constructing. What entry or entries would you NEVER put in a puzzle, and why? And with what entry would you deliberately fail the “breakfast test,” and why? Besides the standard crossword crutches which I do my best to avoid (my personal absolute no-noes are random Roman numerals and massive obscurities which happen to have nice letters), there are some problematic words which, despite their prevalence in spoken or written English, I’d never include. An example of such an entry is GYP, whose etymology I learned the hard way — by including it in a crossword (thinking it was benign) and hearing that it had ruined some solvers’ experiences. [The word GYP is thought to be a slur against the Roma people. — D.A.] Any entry which has the power to do that — or which perpetuates the oppression of some oppressed group, or otherwise causes pain — is one I will not knowingly include in a crossword. In terms of the breakfast test … I think that some of my BuzzFeed puzzles will tell you how I feel about it! If I had my way, anything that doesn’t fall under the umbrella from the previous paragraph would be fair game. I’ve already debuted SEXILE in The New York Times, and entries that Will [Shortz, The Times’s crossword editor] has asked me to edit out of my submitted grids include B.S. METER and KISS ASS. I’m sure similar things will happen going forward, as I continue trying to push boundaries. Also, c’mon, URINE has such nice letters! What are you working on these days? I contributed two puzzles to Queer Qrosswords , a puzzle pack organized by Nate Cardin by LGBTQ+ constructors to benefit LGBTQ+ charities. It “came out” (ha) recently, so please consider a) supporting some awesome charities and b) solving some awesome puzzles! Thank you for spending time with us, Mr. Trabucco. Your thoughts? Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              