   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index The Learning Network Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Article of the Day Teaching Activities for: ‘Mueller Has Dozens of Inquiries for Trump in Broad Quest on Russia Ties and Obstruction’ Image Robert S. Mueller III is said to be trying to determine whether the president had criminal intent when he fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director. Credit J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press By  Caroline Crosson Gilpin May 2, 2018 Before reading the article: Scan through this list of questions Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s election interference, wants to ask President Trump. How many categories are the questions grouped into? What are the headings for those categories? What category has the most questions? Approximately how many questions are there in total? Now, read the article, “ Mueller Has Dozens of Inquiries for Trump in Broad Quest on Russia Ties and Obstruction ,” and answer the following questions: 1. What do the majority of questions relate to, or try to get at, according to the article? 2. What was Mr. Trump’s Twitter reaction to discovering these questions were publicly disclosed? 3. What aspects of the first 15 months of the Trump presidency, and the transition and campaign, do the questions focus on? 4. What are some details the article provides on the questions about James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director? 5. What does the article report about whether Mr. Trump will be interviewed by Mr. Mueller for the investigation? What did the president’s lead lawyer, John Dowd, say? What is Mr. Trump’s stance on being interviewed? 6. What is Mr. Mueller’s endgame, according to the article? What did Mr. Mueller tell Mr. Dowd in March about the president’s conduct, and why? Finally, tell us more about what you think: Go back to the list of questions and scroll to the final category, under the subheading “Campaign Coordination With Russia.” Choose one question under that category that interests you, and read the summary and analysis of the question below it. What did you learn? Go to the comments section of either the main article or the list of questions, and read 10-15 Readers Picks comments. Find comments that are supportive of Mr. Mueller’s investigation, and some that are against it. What information did you read that was new to you, and why? What is your reaction to the comments, and why? Make a prediction: What do you think will happen in the investigation? Will an interview with Mr. Trump take place? Why or why not? If so, what do you think will be revealed in the interview? What will the outcome be? See related Times coverage, “ Trump Says Disclosure of Mueller Questions in Russia Probe Is ‘Disgraceful’ ” and “ Why Answering Mueller’s Questions Could Be a Minefield for Trump Image .” Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              