   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Television Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Best of Late Night Jimmy Kimmel Doesn’t Understand Trump’s Attacks on Amazon Image Jimmy Kimmel and other hosts challenged President Trump on Tuesday for his criticism of Amazon. Credit ABC By  Giovanni Russonello April 4, 2018 Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. ‘Delivery Boys’ President Trump has been criticizing Amazon over the past week, and on Thursday he suggested — inaccurately — that the company is ripping off the United States Postal Service. Jimmy Kimmel was dumbfounded by the criticism, and Jimmy Fallon took the opportunity to poke fun at Trump. “But why insult the people at the post office by calling them Amazon’s delivery boys? They deliver things — that’s what they do! It doesn’t make them boys. They’re adults!” — JIMMY KIMMEL Credit Video by The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon “President Trump has been sending angry tweets about Amazon for the way they run their business. Then someone handed Trump some bubble wrap from an Amazon box and he forgot all about it.” — JIMMY FALLON “After Trump attacked Amazon on Twitter, their stock fell by 5 percent. It’s all part of Trump’s plan to get Amazon’s stock to match his approval rating.” — JIMMY FALLON “This is when I appreciate Twitter: It used to be, if you wanted to hear a 71-year-old man whining about the post office, you had to go to the post office.” — SETH MEYERS The Rock Fools Kimmel Dwayne Johnson sat down with Kimmel on Tuesday, 48 hours after April Fools’ Day, but he still found a way to play a prank on the host. He told Kimmel with seeming sincerity that his girlfriend had played an April Fools’ joke on him, pretending to go into labor and nearly letting him take her to the hospital before she revealed the joke. (All of that turned out to be completely made up.) The Punchiest Punchlines (Cabinet Edition) “Six of Trump’s cabinet members have been questioned about improper spending. Trump was shocked. He said, ‘I still have six cabinet members? How’s that possible?’” — JIMMY FALLON “You know, the police grease the poles specifically so people won’t climb them, and then they do anyway. It never works. If I was in charge, instead of grease, I’d use Krazy Glue. You want to climb that pole? You’re going to be up there for a while.” — JIMMY KIMMEL, on the Philadelphia police’s response to Villanova’s win in the college basketball championship game on Monday The Bits Worth Watching A perfectly reasonable — that is, nonsensical — debate on “Late Night” turned into a set-destroying stunt sequence. All parties seemed pleased. Trump’s team wants to take its legal battle with Stephanie Clifford, the pornographic-film actress known as Stormy Daniels, into private arbitration. Kimmel thinks “private arbitration” sounds like the name of a porn film. What We’re Excited About on Wednesday Night Mike Myers appears in “Terminal,” a new comic thriller . His part isn’t big, but it’s his first live-action film role since 2009. He will talk to Fallon on Wednesday night. Also, Check This Out Image Cardi B, who will be co-hosting and performing a song on “The Tonight Show” on Monday. Credit Evan Agostini/Invision, via Associated Press Cardi B, the rapper, whose interview with Fallon in January became a viral smash, will co-host “The Tonight Show ” with him on Monday. It’ll be the first time the show has officially had a co-host. Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              