   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index The Learning Network Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Current Events Conversation Fortnite, Freedom of the Press, Cyberbullying and Celebrity Opinions: Our Favorite Student Comments of the Week Video In perhaps his most shocking statement to date, the rap superstar Kanye West said 400 years of slavery sounded “like a choice.” But history tells a different story. Published On May 5, 2018 Credit Image by Chad Batka for The New York Times By  The Learning Network May 10, 2018 Though the end of school year 2017-18 is in sight, we still get excited when we see new classes joining the conversation. This week we welcome students from Oxford, Miss., and Leland, Mich. But we also have to tell you that this is the last time this semester we’ll be choosing favorite student comments on our daily writing prompts . Instead, we invite you to transition from commenting on pieces we’ve chosen to choosing articles on your own . As you do, you’ll be practicing for our Summer Reading Contest , which poses the same question every Friday: “What interested you most in The Times this week? Why?” Since the contest doesn’t start until June 15, we reached out to a few teachers we’ve gotten to know and asked how their students would answer that question right now. Here are 17 great answers , which will introduce you to articles on everything from naked museum tours to A.I. technology. Want your pick chosen next week? Post a comment here or here telling us what you’re reading and why. We can’t wait to add your ideas to our list. Please note: All the student comments below have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted. _________ Image A scene from the popular game Fortnite: Battle Royale. Credit Epic Games Our most popular writing prompt this week asked students “ Are You a Fortnite Addict? ” Sloth Jesus from Wilmington, N.C. , — with the most recommended comment — paints this vivid picture of what it’s like to play Fortnite: For a lot of people, Fortnite is just a game you can play with your friends when you are caught up with your homework after school, to have fun and relax, right? For others, it is a completely different experience. It becomes a bit of a life or death situation, as extreme as it sounds. You have to trust your squad mates with your life, or else, you’re as good as dead. It’s kind of an awesome feeling: you and your friends all together against multiple other groups of friends. You battle it out in building and gun play to defeat your opponents. Overall it is a very fun game, that builds enjoyment and experience in stressful situations that help you build better relationships with your friends. When I play with my friends, we are all in a party, or a chatroom, constantly talking about whatever comes to our minds. Its nothing too serious, until someone hears a gunshot at our squad. “Did you guys hear about what happened in 3rd block today?” *Gunshot* “Shots, 330 NW” someone says. The entire conversation changes. From conversation to callouts, in an absolute instant. Your team gets ready to face the coming threat. The addiction itself comes from winning, in my belief. From dropping Salty Springs to running and gunning around the map with a deadly storm pitting the final survivors against one another, to the final battle atop a great mountain, to seeing the words “Victory Royale!” on your screen. It’s a rush of satisfaction and joy, because you won. Daniel Lee from California gives some reasons for why it’s so popular: An immense topic of discussion is the creeping shadow of “Fortnite,” an online multiplayer shooting game. When I first heard of it, I diminished it as a minor and simple video game that might gain some popularity and die off in the duration of a few months. However, the number one thing that my friends talk about aren’t the plot twists of Infinity War, nor the difficulty of the math test on Tuesday, but whether or not they should buy a skin for their character in Fortnite to look decent enough when they’re firing at another player. Video games alone are addicting, but a game such as “Fornite” has the potential to become a sort of black hole, an endless void that squeezes the reason and sense out of students like myself. The most appealing aspect of Fortnite is the gameplay of a mode called Battle Royale. Well over 30 characters are set down in a continuously shrinking arena, where they can accumulate weapons and tools, build complex structures, and prepare for the battle that will determine to the be the winner. A laughable model of The Hunger Games, I didn’t and still to this day never did understand why my friends would want to play the game, which, to me, was as addictive and attractive as watching paint dry on a wall. However, to my friends, “Fortnite” sees like an island in a sea of mediocre video games; a spark of imagination in a dark time. Jessica from Fla. says Fornite has consumed her school, but she doesn’t think the game is toxic: I can say from experience that Fortnite is in fact a very addicting and enjoyable game. I recently downloaded because of all the hype, and play it on a regular basis with my friend. I wouldn’t say that I personally am addicted to the game, however, I do find myself playing it in my free time. To be quite honest, I’m not even sure why exactly the game is so popular. The graphics are really pretty and the concept is nice, but it’s just one of hundreds of shooting video games that exist. I do think that at my school, Fortnite has become something that consumes a lot of time from nearly all the students. It’s constantly being talked about and played by students (including myself) during class time throughout the day. I’ve even noticed that people will post all of their wins or the “victory royale” screen on their social media such as on snapchat. Sometimes people will post as much as 4 or 5 pictures of the gaming screen everytime they win, which can end up being really annoying in my opinion. Although this game is so popular and may consume the time of a lot of individuals, I do not believe that it has any truly toxic effects on those who play it. I honestly think it’s just another really hyped up video game that will eventually die down over time. Abe Barerra from Oregon and his parents came up with rules to to curb his Fornite addiction: Hello I’m a 15 year old kid here. After reading this article and scrutinizing the comment section, I have come to the conclusion that people generally have two sides in this lively debate. While some people state that Violent Games (Fortnite or other Games in General) tend to lead to violent aggression, there is other people who believe that games lead to social and life skills. I can agree with both sides of the conversation. For example I play video games as well, with a few wins on fortnite myself I can agree that the game itself is very addicting, This game creates a gambling affect that makes it hard for people to stop, I know that when I am told to stop by my parents, I feel anger, and that’s just not normal. The problem with this is, that this anger is just temporary, I wont feel any more later, but like trying to stop a gambler from playing poker, its really hard to get someone to just stop playing video games. There is also the benefits of video games, from being able to cooperate with each other in a similar social settings, to enhance memory, improve coordination and improves problem solving skills. The solution that my parents and I cooperated, We put up a set of rules for the weekday, I cannot play video games without first studying, doing homework, chores, and even then, the most I can play is around 1 hour 30 min. In the weekend the rules are similar but with a few changes. I cannot play without studying and chores, I can play but I also need to go outside. Lila Sternoff from New York says it can be a great way for less social people to make friends: I think that its important to recognize that people socialize different ways, and wanting to engage in an activity that they feel comfortable with. Many young people make friends by playing a sport, or participating in a after school activity, and those are both great ways to make friends if that works for you, but many children are just not interested in those activities, and their participation would not be a positive experience for them. Nobody ever calls a child who loves baseball a “baseball addict” in a negative way, and I believe that no one should be criticized with the way that they enjoy themselves. Fortnite is a positive outlet for children to play with friends, feel strong, and have something that they can be proud of accomplishing. Fornite does not create addicts, it creates enjoyable experiences. Mekiyah Hazbin from Colorado , who has made many friends playing Fortnite, agrees: Hello. My name is Mekiyah Hazbin, I go to Liberty Middle school and I am currently in the 7th grade. While I’ve read many news articles and heard many opinions. Some say games like Fortnite and PUBG are addicting and ruin social bonds. I completely disagree. When I began playing Fortnite, it was mid October. I didn’t really play the game. When I did, I did it by myself. Then in late December I went over to a friends house. We played Fortnite together for hours. I really began to like this game and by January, it was one of my top games. But, I still didn’t have anyone to play with. That friend played Ps4 and I was on Xbox. That’s when it hit my school. Fortnite began to be in every conversation. I found people I liked to play with. People I would’ve never met if didn’t play. I met people out of state, and out of country. Yet we still play together and chat together as if we’ve known each other for years. Fortnite is addicting because everyone want to be a winner. They want to feel that sense of accomplishment. They want to say, “I’m better than 100 other people.” If people continue to hate on those who play games, they need to stop. Discouraging someone from completing their goals is wrong. Whether the goal is to become a super star or to finally get that victory royale, no one should think they can’t do something. And as for the game’s violence? Jake M from NH has this to say: I have played Fortnite for almost 3 months now and I have never seen violence being an issue in the game play. There are guns in the game, but the game is more like a game of virtual airsoft being that there is no blood and your character doesn’t actually die, but they get teleported off the island. The game is more cartoony and humorous than violent. The characters dance to send taunts and they have weapons like the “boogey bomb” which makes all the players that been hit by the bomb dance for 20 - 30 seconds. For comparison, Fortnite is not much more violent than Tom and Jerry the kids cartoon. Also, kids these days are playing games like Grand Theft Auto where there is much more blood and violence than Fortnite. So I don’t think that Fortnite has too much violence and that it is suitable for younger people. _________ Image Credit Arianna Vairo Our Student Opinion prompt "What Role Does Envy Play in Your Life?"  asked students if feeling envious makes them want to work harder — or give up — and how it feels to be the envy of others. Tyler Skipworth from Oxford, Miss., has learned how to handle the emotion: My experience with envy has changed through my life. It use to be that when I was little, I had fought or tried to get what I wanted from someone, like a toy. Now, when I see someone with something better then me, I either go like good for you, say how lucky they are compared to me, or do my best to get where they are. That last one is how I hope envy is a part of my adulthood when I grow up, because I think it is a responsible way to use envy to your advantage. Micah Cantor from Hastings on Hudson, N.Y., says accepting it is the best way to overcome it: I think that envy is directly related to competitiveness, but it is often confused with jealousy, which can occur without competition. Under Aristotle’s definition, that envy is the feeling of pain from other’s accomplishments, I only feel that pain when comparing myself to a peer, whom I’m in competition with, and not when comparing myself to a stranger. This distinction is important because I don’t think that a little bit of jealousy of a stranger or peer is a bad thing; it only becomes dangerous when their accomplishments convert into personal feelings of anger or despair. One of the ways to overcome hurtful feelings of envy is not to suppress it, but accept it and realize that any comparison or competition between oneself and others is unnecessary. Once the aspect of competition is relinquished, the envy turns into simple admiration. Ella Thompson from Oxford, Miss., thinks envy is linked to approval: I think that envy relates to competitiveness mostly in sports. Whenever someone comes before meet in a school cross country meet, it seem that that person get congratulated more. I might have been first for the team last meet but you failed this time and people think better of her. That is how envy feels. Envy continues to grow inside me. Then is spend the next week training harder and harder just to beat so-and-so to get lots of approval. I think that envy is linked to approval or praise in a way. Whenever someone is getting more attention then me, even though we did the same thing, I get envious. It is just our human nature. This is why I agree that envy is related to competitiveness. It might be bad or unsportsmanlike but it is true. At least for me. Molly Furman from Hastings-on-Hudson says social media makes envy worse: I completely agree that social media is a huge source of envy because people typically only see or post the best moments, snapshots, of their lives. Social Media has become a platform to brag about the new award you won, the places you traveled to, or the friendships you made or already had. While social media is an amazing place to express one’s individuality, it also leads to people feeling insecure, less than, or extremely envious of a person they know of or a complete stranger. It makes you take a step back when you realize how often people envy other people’s lives and stop living their own because they are attached to their screen. Dannielle Geneus from New Jersey understands when it most often afflicts her: Mostly when envy plays in my life its mostly because of looks. When I see women that looks prettier than me, it would bring me down at time . I would just be like...dang I wish I was like that then get mad jealous. Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., says envy is a motivator: Whenever I envy somebody or something, I am motivated to get whatever I was jealous of. Even when I was little and saw a toy that another little girl had, I saved up, until I got my reward. And now, as a teenager, I use the power of envy as a force in my everyday life. If one of my friends gets a higher grade than me, of course, I would feel envy. So when it came time to take the next exam, I would think back to that moment, and remember what it is that I want: the higher grade. This can be boiled down to competition, because I have a desire to always be on top. _________ Image In the presence of the “Mona Lisa” at the Louvre in Paris, digital photography, rather than looking at the painting, has become the primary experience. Credit Pedro Fiuza/NurPhoto — Sipa, via Associated Press Our most eloquent responses this week may have come in reaction to our Student Opinion question “ Is the Digital Era Improving or Ruining the Experience of Art? ”: Maddy Grosvenor from Leland, Mich. , thinks it should be experienced face-to-face: In my opinion, I think art is best experienced in person. Not that it is impossible for art to be appreciated online or in a book, but to really gain the full experience I think it is best to see them in the flesh. Many of the most famous artworks displayed in museums were made long before art was printed into books and posted on the internet. The artist’s intention was for his/her audience to view them in person, so would that not be the best way to appreciate them? A piece of art that I would love to see in person would have to be a Jackson Pollock piece. By looking at pictures of it online, it is impossible to comprehend the sheer size and the presence it holds in a room. This is one huge drawback you see with viewing art nowadays, because so much of the art we see is online. There is absolutely no way to get the full experience of a piece behind a screen. However, with the internet we can quickly and efficiently see art we would never be able to see without spending money on a plane ticket. Still, I think that the digital era is somewhat ruining the experience of viewing art. It has made it more about visiting museums and having the “I was there” picture than actually appreciating and learning about the art. Colin Satterwhite from Leland, Mich. , agrees, saying art can evoke strong emotions: Prompt One: I think art is meant to be experience in person. I think the meaning of the art is magnified in person and captured in a way that couldn’t be otherwise. I think visual art should be seen in museums. That way, the viewer can get a personal impression of the work that isn’t digital. For me, music is the most important form of art. I know that I’d rather see any song in person at a live concert than through my earbuds at home. I think seeing music in person generates more emotion as you get the atmosphere of a crowd and it’s almost as though you get to interact with the artist and their music. I think the type of art depends on whether the media should be viewed with a group or as an individual. I think are is meant to be experience both intellectually and emotionally. I think art is meant to appeal to all types of things. Art can not only make you think about certain messages, but also appeal to several emotions. I think this is what makes art so special; there is a type for every individual. Cobe Lund from MI says different art forms should be experienced in different ways: In my opinion, different forms of art are meant to be experienced in different ways. People can have a different outcome of feelings towards a work of art if their experience isn’t the same as another persons. I think works of art like the Mona Lisa are meant to be experienced in person, individually, and emotionally whereas works of art like dances are meant to be viewed online and in a group. This is because so much detail can go into a painting and if its not inspected closely, meaning can be lost. On the other hand, with works like dances, the filming and production of the video can add to the overall routine. Also, a whole group can enjoy and try to participate as the work is playing. Benefits of the digital era with art is editing, production quality, and easier sharing opportunities. The main drawback is people trying to get the experience of art online that is meant to be viewed in person and up close. Overall, I think the digital era is improving the experience of art because technology has opened so many doors and possibilities to create new, groundbreaking types of art. Nathanie Doralus from Florida believes it depends on the viewer: Art is meant to be experienced in whatever way is best for the viewer to fully receive the full effect and understanding intended by the artist. Whether that method is in person, online or in books, depends on the viewer and their accessibility to the artwork. I think the initial power lies in the artist’s hands to choose a format that they believe will reach and impact the most people. Those people then obtain the power to share the art with others to experience it in different ways. Works of art I would like to see in person are the recent presidential portraits of Barack and Michelle Obama in the National Portrait Gallery in Washington D.C. I want to experience this in person because I think that would be the best way to remember and revel in the existence of a black president and first lady of the United States, whose portraits were created by black artists. That kind of art is weighted in such a rich and painful history that I want to say I have seen with my own eyes in real life. I have seen the portraits online, and though it brought me so much joy, it made me yearn to see it in person. The digital images showed people witnessing the art for the first time in real life. Their reactions prove that seeing it in person can have a great impact also. The digital era was given artists the tools to share their creations with larger audiences. Viewers have the right to seek other ways of experiencing art. I would think the goal of artists would be to share it with the masses. But Mollie Grishaw from Leland, Mich. , says the best thing about art is that there are no rules for it: One of the most beautiful things about art is the fact that nothing about it is set in stone. There are no definitive laws or theories like there are in the natural sciences. Because of this variability, art isn’t meant to be experienced in any single way. Some types of art are best experienced in a museum, which creates a certain atmosphere of seriousness and formality. Seeing the most famous art works in a museum is a very different experience than seeing them in a book or on a screen, and to some, the former might be the best way to experience them whereas for others it may be the latter. It rests on the preferences of the beholder. I once went to the Detroit Institute of Art, and I could have easily spent innumerable hours there, examining the artwork of different ages and areas. It was a very different experience than seeing a painting on a screen. It became more real, more 3-D. This is definitely a drawback of the digital era. We lose the physicality and dimensions of the world on the flat surface of our screens. How can you ever be sure of the height of a mountain if you only ever see a picture? On the other hand, works of art have never been more accessible than they are now. With simply the touch of a button and a few typed words you can view almost any work of art that you want. With technology, we are able to experience so much more art than if we had to travel to see it. Thus, the impact of the digital age on experiencing art can easily be argued both ways. Jessica Pershinske from Leland, Mich. , thinks the way artists make and share their art is changing with the times: As the digital age progresses and becomes more influential in our day-to-day lives, art has been forced to change its ways. Originally, a piece of art was meant to be observed in the flesh, allowing us to view each brush stroke on the canvas. Today, art can come in nearly any form. The ability to view art in person is no longer required. Rather, some art is created purely for its online availability. Take a photographer that purely takes photos to be displayed online. Does viewing these photos give us the same experience as viewing them in person would? Probably not, but to say that viewing them would have no worth at all would be to undermine the value of today’s artists. In this way, art isn’t simply meant to be experienced in one specific way. Instead, it takes the form of anything and everything, and the way in which we view it changes our outlook on it. Emiko Andrews from Wilmington, N.C. , believes that the Internet is making physical art more “sacred”: While it’s disheartening to me that many people only choose to experience art by taking pictures of famous works, I think it’s a sign of a shift in how we can view and create art in the 21st century. Physical art done with oil paint on canvas is now joining other mediums like digital art and cartoons, which can be distributed online, along with pictures of traditional works of art. I believe that this has caused us to see the physical works of art as something sacred, that we must see just for the experience, and take pictures to capture the memory. As Li said, “I can see [the Mona Lisa] better in a book or on the internet.” Of course there are countless ways to experience art, but it may be of value for us to take more time to consider what we really look for in art, rather than just notoriety. To summarize, it’s my belief that in a time when art in all of its forms is so accessible, we should look for art that has meaning for us, not just that which has a famous name attached. Alice Ongaro from Leland, Mich. , sees both the benefits and drawbacks of art in the digital era: Everyone’s art experience is individual and experienced differently. Art is not meant to be experienced in any specific way. Your take about a piece of art is always going to be different from someone else’s. I consider Seeing art in person always better, for example it makes me feel closer to the artist. Also when I am looking at a work of art, I know that what I am seeing is unique. Seeing it in person gives value to the piece. I admit that sometimes I do visit museums just because an artwork that I am going to see is really famous. But this does not mean that I can’t appreciate it or that it does not transmit me any feelings. Of course right now there are some huge advantages involving art because of the digital era. There is no need to travel or even to move to see art. It could be a real advantage for someone who is unable or does not have opportunities to visit a museum. But also I think that the fact that you only need a click to see a work of art, takes value away from the artists’ job. _________ Image Journalists protesting on World Press Freedom Day in Istanbul. Press freedom in Turkey has sharply deteriorated under President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Credit Murad Sezer/Reuters “ How Important Is Freedom of the Press? ” asked students if they get news from multiple sources, and if they think doing so is important. Students wrote in from New York and New Mexico, but also from Germany and Canada. Ashutosh Tamhankar from Munich says the world needs a dissenting press: A free press is like a catalyst in a democratic society. Journalism offers a common ground for ideas to be discussed from diverse points of views and promoting a dialog.So that people can form their own opinions, values like impartiality, truth and accuracy should play a key role in the media. If the radio reports that the German government decides to swith off nuclear energy, it has to make sure the facts are right, the opinion reported is not misrepresented and that the pros and cons of this idea are presented to the audience. To support a liberal society that respects diversity, fairness and peace, we need a dissenting press. Demagogues will enjoy impunity with the lack of free press if they are successful in silencing a critical voice in the society. Miss Turkey got into trouble by writing a poem that critiqued Mr. Erdogan. Such instances will continue to happen if press is allowed to be intimidated by these “democratators”. Freedom of speech shouldn’t be misunderstood to be freedom to offend. Journalists are accountable to a pluralistic audience that trusts the press as a source of information to form their views. The press thus has a huge responsibility in keeping a healthy discourse alive to keep democracy alive. Mahir from 3DYC CLIP says news empowers others: Though it may be interesting or even entertaining, the foremost value of news is as a utility to empower the informed. The purpose of journalism is thus to provide citizens with the information they need to make the best possible decisions about their lives, their communities, their societies, and their governments. News is that part of communication that keeps us informed of the changing events, issues, and characters in the world outside. Though it may be interesting or even entertaining, the foremost value of news is as a utility to empower the informed. Kyla Navarro from Las Cruces, N.M., is concerned about the suppression of a free press: Since the 2016 Presidential Election, I’ve come to realize that the media is incredibly important. Journalism is a line of defense against a powerful government: it is essential to democracy to be aware of what our elected officials are doing! As someone who supports a lot of government regulation, I don’t think news outlets should be censored in any way. My peers insist on the government mitigating news outlets rather than being responsible, aware, and critical of the information they consume online or on television. Censoring the freedom of the press and free speech is also interfering with the first amendment rights of Americans: so what stops the government from stopping people to peacefully protest or worship whichever god(s) they believe in? I do agree that President Trump is a threat to the free press and I don’t think democratic leaders should denounce the media. Leaders should be aware how essential it is to the people they have sworn to serve to be aware of the good and the bad of their policies: not everyone wins in politics, people have to compromise. Marcelo from 3DYC CLIP thinks a free press is important, even though, he says, reporters can be too aggressive: I think that the freedom of press is important until a certain point, the press does not have to have the freedom to do whatever they want or to say whatever they want to say because everyone knows how harassing some reporters can be, it is true that their work is important to keep us informed about things that happened around the world. Ruth from 3DYC CLIP insists a free press should be worldwide: In my opinion, the purpose of journalism is offers enough information to all of us. It is important for all people in our country, to know more about what happen in each place. Journalism is a means of information very important. Journalists should have absolute freedom of speech everywhere in the world. Devlin Korr from Ontario, Canada highlights a case study for journalistic ethics: Soft censorship by media outlets is a serious problem that does not get enough attention. Sometimes agents of the state and/or corporate entities make it difficult for journalists to report the facts or act impartially. Consider the case of Bela Kosoian, the woman who was handcuffed and fined for not holding an escalator handrail and obstructing police in the performance of their duties. The incident was all over the news in 2009. Journalists at the time sided with the police, saying they were merely enforcing an STM by-law. Had they done their due diligence instead of acting like cheerleaders for the police, they would have discovered there is no regulation requiring commuters to hold the handrail — not then, not now. Ms. Kosoian contested her tickets in municipal court and won. News of her victory was never reported to the masses, whom to this very day live in ignorance of the injustice that was done to her — and by extension to themselves. She is currently going the route of social media with a campaign called 1becomesmany to raise awareness of her challenge to the Supreme Court of Canada on a related matter. She has a Wix blog with an entry called “Yes. Real life can be stranger than fiction”, which will give you cause to question the integrity of our so-called free press. _________ Image Instagram, owned by Facebook, is expanding its anti-bullying initiative in an effort to rid the popular social media site of bullies. Credit Chandan Khanna/Agence France-Presse Nearly all students who responded to our Picture Prompt on cyberbullying  said that it happens regularly and that social media companies should do something about it. Kayla Renee from Pennsylvania says it happens every day: Cyberbullying is a nationwide issue and ranges among all ages, not just teenagers. I have never been bullied over the internet but it’s something that most kids my age face everyday. I feel as if social media apps aren’t doing as much as they can for the children and young adults being tormented from cyberbullying. It happens too often for nothing to be changing. The most common apps where people cyberbully would be Facebook and Instagram. Facebook and Instagram can do a lot more then they are now about addressing this problem. Lexie Smith from Oxford has been a victim of cyberbullying, and thinks jokes often go too far: Students love to conceal their embarrassment or the shame of being bullied. I honestly believe that snapchat is where most of the cyber bullying take place. Most students ponder that since snap chat post disappear after 24 hours that it doesn’t matter which is false. I do feel as if social media companies should try to filter what is posted or commented. No one should feel harassed on social media, and I think that they should try to remove the negative comments and etc. For example have someone watch over pages. I think that some students are just trying to crack a joke, but takes that joke a little to far. I am aware of cyber bullying knowing the fact that at one point I was a victim of cyber bullying. I know that the act of bullying will not cease, but I think that their should be more that we can do. Dorothy Daniels from Oxford, Miss., says Instagram does a good job of removing offending posts promptly: I think Instagram is doing good recognizing and taking action when cyberbullying is spotted. To do even better, Instagram and other social media platforms should encourage users to report cyberbullying. Personally, I found that people feel intrusive or in other people’s business when they report abusive, hurtful comments. On one specific post, I saw a younger girl getting attacked for supporting a highly disliked celebrity. I reported the comments and they were removed within 24 hours. I feel like most social media is doing really well recognizing and fighting against cyberbullying. Bella from Oxford, Miss., thinks everyone deserves to be treated fairly: I think cyberbullying is a problem for some people. They feel more comfortable doing it behind a screen instead of in person. This does not happen to me, but for many other people it does. It happens on any app where you can talk to another person. People’s feelings get hurt often because others are mean to them. The people that cyberbully have probably been bullied before, so they do it to make them feel better about themselves. A person is most likely to scared to tell someone about it, so the bully takes advantage of that and does not stop. Everyone deserves to be treated fairly and no one should have to go through that! _________ Image In a 105-minute conversation filmed at Kanye West’s California home on April 18, the rapper spoke about controversies, aspirations and regrets. A more emotional interview on TMZ was posted Tuesday as well. Comments were wide-ranging, respectful, and thoughtful in answer to our question “ How Much Do a Celebrity’s Personal Beliefs Influence Your Opinion of Their Work? ,” which was inspired by Kanye West’s recent statements . Kyndall from Virginia has a strong reaction to Mr. West: My reaction to Kanye’s comments is that of disgust and disregard; I agree with the widespread denunciation. Celebrities’ personal opinions, depending on the topic, do not necessarily influence my opinion of their work, but they do influence my support of them. I’ve stopped listening to many artists because of what they’ve said and what they’ve done regardless of my initial positive feelings about their work. I don’t want to endorse a person who espouses hateful views or plain ignorance. I don’t think separating the art from the artist applies to modern public figures who should understand the significance of their comments and actions. It’s easy for people like Mr. Leibovitz to minimize Kanye’s rhetoric as a mere opinion. But while some have the privilege of ignoring politics, others are affected daily by its consequences, which is why I don’t understand how the endorsement of a man with staunch support from white supremacists should be tolerated and overlooked as simply a different viewpoint. This “free-thinking” is dangerous because it normalizes the racism Kanye has internalized and gives credibility to those who believe in these ideas. People shouldn’t be given a pass because others perceive them as creative and insightful, Kanye’s pseudo-intellectual comments, especially as a “proud non-reader of books,” are the direct opposite of insight, and they should be held accountable, especially when their “missteps” aren’t actually mistakes but intentional choices they make. Sam from Boston says part of Mr. West’s greatness is his “refusal to keep with the norm”: Kanye West has never been the kind of person to withhold what he thinks from the media because it would cause controversy. In the recent TMZ interview that he took part in, he made the comment that looking back now after hundreds of years “slavery is a choice” which immediately caused outrage. Although his comments are unpopular in the public eye, in my opinion it should not harbor an effect on the enjoyment of his musical or fashion endeavors. West has the right to say what he believes and for people to attempt to boycott his music and to cause such an uproar because of the fact that he is in the public eye. I enjoy West’s music separate from whether I agree or disagree with his political or other public views. One of the things that makes Kanye the great artist that he is, is his edge and refusal to keep with the norm. He is entitled to his opinion and in my opinion for Kanye to say something of this nature is not extremely surprising. Quin from The Governors Academy feels strongly that freedom of expression is a right for all Americans: Although I was surprised by what Kanye West said during his interview, I like hearing what celebrities have to say about topics that don’t have anything to do with their profession. You never know what they are gonna say. Kanye is a musician and an entertainer. I have never unfollowed a celebrity on social media because of their political views. If their beliefs influence their work, I would still follow them. It’s part of who they are. After listening to Kanye’s interview on TMZ, it made me realize that even though Kanye’s comments on slavery were very shocking, he has the right to express his feelings. I understand that some people were offended by what he said. He is famous and he has a lot of influence, but people have the right to criticism him, unfollow him or to boycott his products and music if they want. Freedom of expression is a right of all Americans. Kanye said in his interview that he admires Trump because he proved that anything is possible in America. I can understand how Kanye can relate to Trump as an outsider. Kanye’s interview shows how important it is to have conversations about controversial issues. Everyone has their own opinions, no matter how different they are, we should listen so that we can understand where people are coming from even if we don’t agree with them. Artists and people need to be free to express themselves, it’s one of the things that makes America great, even if we disagree with what they say. Azjan Ransome from Byfield, Mass., encourages interaction with people of varying opinions: Personally, I’m glad that Kanye West is sharing his opinion. The right to free expression is everyone’s and Kanye is not exempt. The public response was unfair; having an unpopular opinion does not make someone crazy, but, the right is entitled to their opinion as well. It’s human nature to put people in boxes. As Mr. West states in his TMZ interview, he is an artist, a musician, and a black person, but his opinions do not have to align with other members of that group. It is not his responsibility to represent anyone besides himself and his company. The most human thing that Kanye or any artist can do is express their unique perspective.A celebrities’ personal beliefs — their political leanings, philosophical stances, perspectives on the world and their causes, should not be considered when deciding the quality of their work. Simultaneously, artist’s work should not be independent of who they are. If you don’t like what someone stands for, then go find other entertainers. I would never delete a celebrities social media or not watch their performances because their opinions don’t align with mine. I believe it is important to interact with and receive the opinions of people who you don’t agree with. People’s personal beliefs have never changed my feelings about their work. I agree with Mr. Leibowitz’s statement because free expression is a right of all americans. Shania Sylvain from Apopka is personally hurt at the rapper’s comments on slavery: When people say that Kanye is in the “Sunken Place” I honestly found it as a joke but now I’m starting to think this statement is true. I feel, as many others do, that he’s only doing this because he has music coming out. Kanye is known for acting a fool when he has something coming out so that it brings him a much attention. But as far as his very surprising remarks on slavery, I am honestly extremely hurt, taken back, and disgust. Being imprisoned is not a choose. We have to keep in mind that many of those slaves made tough decisions like taking their lives and risking running away, killing masters, and rebelling. So the statement about choosing to to be slaves and being mental imprisoned was very reckless. Kyle Gaffey says no person should be treated poorly for his beliefs: After returning from his one year mental cool down, Kanye West has returned to the public eye in a very thought provoking way. Personally I believe that Mr. West’s comments could offend many people, but I can’t say I feel personally attacked by his ideals. He believes the words he is speaking and he is entitled to his opinion. The public can comment on his views but I believe that nobody should be attempting to conform him because of the influence he holds over people. Kanye West has millions of fans that will listen to what he says but people who challenge his views have no right to say he shouldn’t believe what he wants. West is challenging the social norm and he doesn’t deserve to be treated poorly based off his beliefs, no person does. Heaven from Massachusetts feels that, in the end, she cannot support an artist who offends: Just like every other person, Kanye is entitled to his own opinion, but when you’re in a position of status or power, you have to be conscious of the impact of your words. In regards to Mr. West showing his support for Trump, although I do not support Trump in any way, that is his choice and option to do so. However when stating that 400 years of slavery was a choice, there was a clear lack of thought behind what he was saying. He completely dismissed the mental and physical brutality of slavery and the repercussions of it against black people throughout history: from Jim Crow era to police brutality. I wouldn’t have had as big of a problem with it if Kanye offered an explanation, but his statement seemed as if there was little or no thought to back it up. Kanye is a great artist that many look up to, however he has to realize that what he says has an effect on everyone.In general for me, an artist’s work and beliefs go hand in hand. If something they support goes against what I stand for morally, I can not continue to support them, because at the end of the day there are plenty of artists and musicians that I can enjoy. That doesn’t mean they themselves are a bad person or their work is bad, but it would be hypocritical for me to say one thing, while supporting artists with morals that do not align with my own. Pat Flaherty from Byfield, Mass., understands the connection between Kanye and President Trump: Kanye West is notorious for speaking out against the norm and having an abstract point of view. After listening to Kanye’s interview, I was intrigued by his mindset and the way he views big political matters. Kanye was recently seen wearing a “Make America Great Again” hat and when asked about it, he replied “It was just what I was feeling that day.” He then said how he likes Trump and how he was considered an outsider in the presidential campaign and ended up becoming president. Kanye enjoyed the fact that an “outsider infiltrated” and won the election. Kanye, unlike many other rappers, likes Trump and is intrigued by the way he handles things. Kanye also likes Trump because of how he uses his platform to speak directly to the people and how the people have no fear in speaking back. Kanye believes that Trump has allowed Americans to speak out and feel comfortable doing so. _________ Image Credit Aistė Stancikaitė Students write short stories and poems in response to the Picture Prompt, “ Four Items .” Brianne from New Hampshire composes a farewell poem: Goodbye May the rain splash against your umbrella May they sit like dew drops or slither away May the rain caress our cheeks? But the drops on our cheeks aren’t rain, Are they? Please let me carry your luggage for you May you find happiness above the clouds The people around us hustle along The chaos that surrounds use We reach security, I can’t go further The last time these eyes see yours The ticket stamped and I’m given one last glance A wave of a hand and a bittersweet smile You’re going to better and brighter places, Far away from me Resting on my nightstand A journal, your journal You’ve forgotten it You’d never let me read it It stays with me, daring me to explore your thoughts But I mustn’t, I can’t break your trust I can’t break what’s already broken And the drops on my cheeks aren’t rain, Are they? Danielle Filandino from Pennsylvania uses vivid details to draw readers in: At different locations on this giant green rock, there are personal items being lost. They’re carried from A to B, seeing the world from low and high, in wallets and bags. Their needs not thought about by their owners. Because they’re not living, they dont have feelings, right? Although these seem like lost items, they are just trying to go on their own journey. A book, filled with personal secrets or a schedule wants to read stories. A wet umbrella after a spring storm wants to feel the warm sun. A ticket, going somewhere far or near wants to stay put. And a suitcase, seeing hundreds of faces everyday and then being packed away, when it really wants to see the world. Maybe these items go missing on purpose, so they can be on their own. To be free of boundaries and the “stereotypes” of non living items. The ticket drifts out of a hand, the book drops out of a bag, the umbrella is left at a rest stop 30 miles up the road, and the suitcase is left alone in a florida airport. This is where their story begins. Brooke Myers from King of Prussia imagines a spy: Eggsy was going on a trip, had his luggage packed, his identifying book ready, his sword and shield umbrella, and his suitcase with his weapons, passports, and other spy stuff ready to go, all he needed was his train ticket to get to San Francisco by 9:00 and he could leave. He went to the booth, got his ticket, and left everything in his bunk room on the train to go get a drink and find out more about the train’s occupants, only to get back to find all his spy stuff, book, suitcase, and umbrella stewed all over the floor with a ripped up ticket that said, “You’re on the wrong train.” Manderine from Manhattan leaves readers in suspense: Heading out from LA for a weekend of fun with friends in San Fransisco, Jim had his necessary travel items packed in his blue carry-on rolling bag, his leather bound diary, rainbow colored umbrella for those unexpected January rain showers, toiletries and a few items he would want to wear. At 5:07 he boarded the train and took his window seat. Comfortable and relaxed, sipping on his hot take-out coffee, he looked out as the the train started to roll out of the station. With anticipation for the upcoming concert Jim took out his ticket for the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium, only to see something was not right. It was the date. His ticket read: “Saturday, January 12, 2018, 8:00”. Suddenly he panicked because today was Friday January 12, 2018. Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              