   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Soccer Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Lionel Messi May Return for Clásico Showdown at Real Madrid Image Lionel Messi has not played since tearing a knee ligament in a league game on Sept. 26. Credit Sergio Perez/Reuters By  Victor Mather Nov. 20, 2015 After almost two months on the sidelines, Lionel Messi could be ready to return to the field for Barcelona — perhaps even in time for a Clásico showdown at Real Madrid on Saturday. Messi has not played since tearing a knee ligament less than 10 minutes into a league game on Sept. 26. News of the injury no doubt worried Barcelona fans, but since the injury the club is 5-1 in the Spanish league and 3-0 in the Champions League. Barcelona has opened a 3-point lead over Real Madrid at the top of La Liga through 11 games heading into this weekend’s match, as its other two attacking stars, Neymar and Luis Suárez, have filled the gap with 10 goals each since Messi’s injury. Real had been keeping pace until a 3-2 loss at Sevilla on Nov. 8, and the Spanish news media is already piling the pressure on Manager Rafa Benítez. Should Real lose on Saturday, the pressure would only increase . Benítez on Friday promised to play an attacking style, even if Messi is in Barcelona’s lineup. There is as yet no definite word on whether Messi will start, come off the bench or even play at all. He practiced with Barcelona’s B team last week and returned to first-team training this week. Coaches and teammates have spoken highly of his recovery, but it is also possible that some gamesmanship is afoot. “Whether Messi plays or not, the great news is that he is fit again,” Manager Luis Enrique said Friday. El Clásico is one of the biggest regular sporting matches in the world, and Messi has been a key figure in the rivalry for a decade, scoring 21 Clásico goals, the record . In that 10-year span, Real Madrid and Barcelona have won 9 of 10 Spanish titles. Barcelona has also won four Champions Leagues in that time, and Real Madrid one. Security for this year’s game will be high in the wake of the attacks outside a match at the Stade de France in Paris last week. The Belgium-Spain and Germany-Netherlands exhibition matches were canceled this week, but soccer is returning across the continent this weekend. But as usual, no game will be bigger than El Clásico. Related Coverage 10 American Cities Chosen for Copa América Next Summer Nov. 19, 2015 Image Sepp Blatter and Michel Platini Lose FIFA Appeals and Remain Suspended Nov. 18, 2015 Image Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              