   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Travel Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Explore 7 N.F.L. Cities Beyond Football Compiled by  Justin Sablich Sept. 12, 2017 Whether you are a football lover or not, there’s plenty to like about each one of the N.F.L.’s 32 host cities, and fans will be flocking to several of them this weekend for Week 2 of the 2017 season. If you’re one of them, but looking for more to do than just the game — or if you’re just curious to learn more about some of these great American cities — here are seven to explore. Image “The Workers,” by Tim Kaulen, an Industrial Arts Co-op project, was made from reclaimed steel. Credit Darren S. Higgins for The New York Times Pittsburgh, Pa. Sunday: Minnesota Vikings at Pittsburgh Steelers, 1 p.m. E.S.T. The Steel City’s charms are often hidden from view. While the revitalization of downtown Pittsburgh has earned lots of attention, much of the action is found farther out, in once-overlooked neighborhoods like Lawrenceville and East Liberty. It’s a place where abandoned buildings reveal art museums in the making, where decaying industrial sites prove ripe for urban exploration, where residential streets hide restaurant kitchens turning out remarkably fresh, local food. 36 Hours in Pittsburgh Built on Steel, Pittsburgh Now Thrives on Culture Image The view of downtown Baltimore from the top of Federal Hill. Credit Darren S. Higgins for The New York Times Baltimore Sunday: Cleveland Browns at Baltimore Ravens, 1 p.m. E.S.T. The allure of Baltimore lies not in its built-for-tourists Inner Harbor, where you’ll find chain restaurants like Hard Rock Cafe, but in its abundance of 19th-century architecture and hip cocktail bars — not to mention its welcoming outdoor spaces and world-class art museums. 36 Hours in Baltimore Exploring Baltimore, a City With Style to Spare, on a Budget Image The nighttime skyline of Indianapolis, from the White River State Park. Credit Stacy Able for The New York Times Indianapolis Sunday: Arizona Cardinals at Indianapolis Colts, 1 p.m. E.S.T. This monument-filled, sports-mad city rebuilt its urban core in 2013 with a recreational trail linking cultural sites and introduced the broadest electric car-sharing program in the country in 2015. Entrepreneurs — upcyclers making shoulder bags from fabric culled from the old RCA Dome, nationally lauded chefs redefining Midwestern fare — share a green streak, and a plethora of outdoor activities will appeal to fans of parks and recreation. 36 Hours in Indianapolis Image In Kansas City, LC’s Bar-B-Q, with crunchy flavorful burnt ends. Credit Anna Petrow for The New York Times Kansas City Sunday: Philadelphia Eagles at Kansas City Chiefs, 1 p.m. E.S.T. It’s such a revered barbecue destination that it’s one of the major regional styles typically cited (along with the Carolinas, Texas and Memphis) when people talk about smoked meats. But there’s also a fantastic music scene, some satisfying museums, well-made local beers and great shopping. There are many different sides to this great city in America’s heartland that truly seems to be coming into its own. In Kansas City, Barbecue, Beer and Bargains Image Rolling hills and lush tress provide a great escape at Mountain View Cemetery in Oakland. Credit Jason Henry for The New York Times Oakland, Calif. Sunday: New York Jets at Oakland Raiders, 4:05 p.m. E.S.T. Long overshadowed by its dolled-up big sister across the Bay, Oakland is its own town. Even as its status as one of the most diverse cities in the country is threatened by tech-boom-era gentrification, its vibrant cultural heterogeneity remains its greatest strength. The city’s rather dull skyline belies its architectural splendor — from glamorous movie palaces to the Kevin Roche-designed midcentury-modern Oakland Museum of California to the 135-acre Mills College campus, where Beaux-Arts and Spanish Colonial Revival buildings are set among eucalyptus trees. 36 Hours in Oakland Image The view of downtown Los Angeles from Echo Park. Credit Laure Joliet for The New York Times Los Angeles Sunday: Miami Dolphins at Los Angeles Chargers, 4:05 p.m. E.S.T.; Washington Redskins at Los Angeles Rams, 4:25 p.m. E.S.T. Despite pop culture portrayals of Los Angeles as either comically superficial or darkly dystopian, the nation’s second largest metropolis is a vivid, soulful, eclectic city. It’s home to year-round blooms and captivating street murals, musical innovation and outsider art, deeply rooted communities and world-class food cooked by chefs from around the globe. The greatest challenge for visitors is not what to do, but which version of this vast city to embrace. 36 Hours in Los Angeles How to Do Beverly Hills on a Budget Image A beer at Historians Ale House, where the draw is Colorado beers: Typically at least 75 percent of its 40 tap list is local. Credit Morgan Rachel Levy for The New York Times Denver Sunday: Dallas Cowboys at Denver Broncos, 4:25 p.m. E.S.T. The signs of Denver’s economic high times as a pot boomtown and bastion of progressive urban policies are everywhere. There is the B-cycle bike-share program, among the most affordable and best-run systems in the country, and the recently renovated Union Station, which has taken a still-in-use 1881 train station and made it the focal point of the thriving LoDo neighborhood. And there are the inconspicuous marijuana dispensaries that dot nearly every neighborhood, and more stunning public spaces — from Washington Park to the Cherry Creek bike path — than one city has a right to. 36 Hours in Denver  Denver’s Vintage Train Station Gets (Another) Update Correction :  An earlier version of this article incorrectly included San Diego as an N.F.L. host city. The Chargers moved to Los Angeles last year. The section has been removed. Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              