   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Opinion Supported by Op-Ed Contributor Why Are We Paying for a Star-Struck BBC? By  Howard Jacobson July 27, 2017 Image Credit Kelly Blair LONDON — Coming clean about how much you earn is like confessing to adultery. It’s probably the right thing to do, but there’ll be hell to pay afterward. In the case of the salaries of the BBC’s top earners, the fallout is likely to be messier on account of its being the BBC that did the fessing up on its talent’s behalf. We all know what happens when someone else admits your adultery for you. The BBC was never, it must be said, a willing party to this. It was the government’s idea. The BBC buzzes in the government’s brain. All that money coming in and no accountability. No deference either. If you want your license renewed for another decade, the government insisted to the BBC, you will have to tell us who, among your starriest talent, is earning more than 150,000 pounds (about $195,000) per annum. Why that apparently arbitrary amount? It’s what the prime minister earns. Right now, the country wouldn’t object to anyone earning more than Theresa May, but at the time the government made this demand, the position of prime minister was held in slightly higher esteem. Leaving Mrs. May out of it, the first responses to the BBC’s disclosures have held steady somewhere between intemperate rage and apoplexy, encompassing contempt for the government for forcing the BBC’s hand, disgust with the BBC over the size of the remunerations revealed, and fury all around at their inequality. The inevitable ad hominem queries (why does A earn less than B but more than C?) have yielded to the larger ad feminem question of why, across the board, women are paid significantly less than men — in some cases, hundreds of thousands of pounds less — for doing the same job. On this, the BBC isn’t looking for a fight. No, there is no good reason for a gender gap in pay, and it is soon to be addressed. How soon is soon? Soon. By 2020, hopes the broadcaster’s director general. But does that mean women’s salaries will go up, or men’s will come down ? There’s been no definitive answer to that yet, not least as the entire structure of stars’ pay is built on quicksand. Who’s to say what a fair salary is for a newsreader or a sports presenter of either sex? How do we measure the worth of talent? And by what scale, in a company funded by taxpayers, is perceived value at any level of performance to be rewarded? It was argued before that divulging what the highest paid receive would lead to an explosion in wage demands, and it is widely supposed now that it will. If this exercise was intended to make the BBC more accountable and hold down costs, the opposite is likely to be the case. No one likes to know that someone doing the same job is paid more, and of those who are paid more, few are likely to welcome the idea of being paid less. The trend can be only for all those lower down to ask for a raise and for the BBC to pay it. Otherwise, and this is the argument used by free marketeers the world over, they will go elsewhere — an assumption rooted in what they call realism and what we might call cynicism. So, should the exercise never have been attempted? If other people’s salaries are a minefield, aren’t we safer not venturing out there? This is something we ponder every time The Sunday Times publishes its annual Rich List, a poor relation to Forbes magazine’s World’s Billionaires . To whose benefit is it to know that there are people out there who amass in the blink of an eye more than you will earn in your entire lifetime? Then again, to whose benefit is it not to know? Inequities will out, whether or not we know the precise banking details. They seep into the vitals of society like putrescence. The trouble is that when we do find out the details, they demoralize us still more. There’s inequity, and there’s inequity. That we are living through a time of political turmoil is, in no small part, because of what we learned after the banking crisis of 2008: The rich beggar all our imaginings, both in what they earn and own, and in what they consider their unique entitlement to go on earning and owning more. You don’t need to be a Marxist to see that a distribution of wealth as grossly unfair as ours alienates the poor and disheartens even the moderately well-to-do. Too great a disparity makes a mockery of all human endeavor other than accumulation. And in the end, makes fools of the accumulators, too. But we are a generous species, as well as a justifiably envious one. We balk at putting a price on what others do. Thus we would rather not say that hosting a Saturday night soccer program on television isn’t worth the nearly £1.8 million ($2.35 million) that the BBC pays one of its stars. Soccer, anyway, obeys its own rules. Miss a penalty for Manchester United and you still pocket a quarter of a million pounds. Fans seem not to mind this as much as they would for a banker who misses his targets and still gets his bonus. To those who play with balls, everything is forgiven. And as with the players, so with the commentators. We indulge them as we indulge spoiled children. A similar refusal to sit in judgment holds us back from questioning what a radio host earns, provided that his show belongs to the lightest category of light entertainment. Spin a disc (or, rather, cue up a track) and you’re untouchable. The BBC has revealed that its highest earner is Chris Evans, who hosts a popular morning radio show. He is not to everybody’s taste but he is personable, fast on the trigger and pulls in a huge audience. Why not, in that case, a huge fee? Mr. Evans earns £2.25 million (nearly $3 million). Is that too much? How to measure? And even if we suspect it is a trifle high, we don’t want to say so. Light entertainment, like sport, enjoys a strange exemption from any form of denigration. “People mutht be amuthed, Thquire,” as the lisping owner of a circus says in Charles Dickens’s “Hard Times.” Dickens wrote passionately about the important part entertainment plays in cheering up a depressed nation. Being a novelist, for him, didn’t preclude being an entertainer. Whether or not we expect more of a novelist today, and less of an entertainer, we, too, attach a high value to amusement and don’t begrudge the fantastical salaries paid to those who help us while away the hours. Even were we to feel differently, a fear of appearing elitist would make us hold our tongues. Woe betide those, in our Hard Times, who show contempt for what is popular. Arguably, the middle range of high earners — the newsreaders, interviewers, opinion formers and the like — have attracted a disproportionate amount of adverse comment from the public, which puts a lower estimation on words than “personality.” These salaries are certainly hard to justify, but at least in this, the BBC is remembering its commitment to conscientious current affairs journalism. As for the men and women at the more philosophical end of broadcasting, few figure in the list. This isn’t to say there isn’t still intellectually ambitious radio (and let’s not forget that there remains an entire station devoted to classical music), but these presenters are distinctly poor relations. BBC television is worse, still — penny-pinching the life out of arts programming and rarely finding the will or the cash to commission anything that might remotely be thought of as “difficult.” It used to be taken for granted that the BBC, whether it led the culture or followed it, would be comprehensive in its ambitions. Part of its public service remit was to educate as well as entertain, to aim high as well as low. Now, well, there isn’t the funding to cater for the fastidious. Ask why that is and the answer isn’t hard to find. The cash has been blown on trifles light as air. Here’s the greatest iniquity uncovered by the BBC’s disclosures. While dodging questions of discrimination and taste, the BBC’s management has shown by what standards of trivia it measures. Star-struck in the extreme, it is hypnotized by celebrity. Given all that was once asked of our public broadcaster, and all that it once promised, that is nothing short of infidelity. The adulterer’s defense rarely wavers: “It meant nothing to me.” And the betrayed spouse’s reply rarely wavers, either: “If it meant nothing to you, why did you do it?” Howard Jacobson, the author of “The Finkler Question” and, most recently, “Pussy: A Novel,” is a contributing opinion writer.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . A version of this article appears in print on in The International New York Times . Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Related Coverage BBC Publishes Pay of Top Stars, Revealing Gender Gap July 19, 2017 Image Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              