   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Olympics Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Boston, in Old College Try, Uses Campuses in 2024 Olympic Bid Image James B. Connolly left Harvard to participate in the first modern Olympics, held in Athens. Credit Associated Press By  Katharine Q. Seelye Jan. 9, 2015 BOSTON — The odds were against James B. Connolly. He was born in South Boston in 1868, one of 12 children of poor Irish immigrants. But he schooled himself and managed to get into Harvard. He was also a strapping athlete. And in 1896, he wanted to compete in the first modern Olympics, held in Athens. But Harvard denied him a leave of absence to travel to Greece, so he withdrew from the university (“Good day!” said his note), and off he went. On the opening day, he won the triple jump — then called the hop, step and jump — and leapt into history as the first champion medalist of the modern Games. Mr. Connolly would be mighty surprised today to see how much the relationship between Harvard and the Olympics has changed. Colleges and universities are an essential part of the package put forth by Boston, which was chosen Thursday as the American bid city for the 2024 Summer Games. Its proposal relies heavily on using the existing facilities at many of the region’s dozens of colleges and universities. John Fish, the construction magnate who is the chief cheerleader for Boston’s bid, said he expected three-fourths of the sporting venues would be on college campuses. “One of the advantages we had was that we had all these wonderful colleges and universities willing to partner with the 2024 effort,” said Doug Rubin, a spokesman for Boston 2024, the private group promoting the city for the Olympics. “It helped strengthen our bid in a considerable way.” Image The first-place silver medal that Connolly won in 1896. Credit Joel Page/Associated Press By using colleges, Boston’s promoters hope to cut down on many of the costs usually associated with hosting the Olympics . They also hope to leverage the excitement that the Games could generate to unlock money from alumni who might be thrilled to make donations to upgrade their facilities for Olympic events. The whole idea behind the Olympics in Boston, which has never bid on the Games before, is to create a sustainable Games that makes use of pre-existing structures and is easily walked and biked. Early plans, which are likely to change over time, envision field hockey at Harvard Stadium, archery at M.I.T., and badminton at Boston University’s Agganis Arena. The Olympic Village for housing athletes may be built at the former Bayside Expo grounds and could later be converted into dorms for the University of Massachusetts, Boston. Dorms at B.U. and Northeastern University that are vacant in the summer might be used for housing members of the news media. “We’ve had a pretty robust university group that’s come to the table and said, ‘Let’s see what works best,’ ” Mr. Rubin said. “Obviously, there’s a lot of prestige in having an Olympic-quality facility on your property. In terms of athletics, recruitment, fund-raising — it’s all been part of the conversation.” And some argue that it is not just the colleges’ physical facilities that are fundamental to Boston’s bid, but the institutions’ reputation for academic expertise, innovation and brain power that could help Boston in the final bidding in 2017 against bigger cities like Rome and possibly Paris, and either Berlin or Hamburg. Image Connolly in 1950. Credit Associated Press Andrew W. Lo, a professor at M.I.T.’s Sloan School of Management, and Tom Rutledge, the head of fixed income origination at Magnetar Capital and a Sloan graduate, have suggested that M.I.T.’s urban planners, Harvard’s Graduate School of Design and various business schools could come up with smart ways to meet the challenges in housing, transportation and financing that have given many Bostonians pause about hosting the Games. “No, Boston might not be in the global top 10 in population, wealth, or industry,” they wrote, “but it has a strong claim to being the innovation capital of the world in asset management, life sciences and medicine, technology, and other R&D-intensive disciplines.” All this is a long way from the days when Mr. Connolly had to quit Harvard to make his Olympic dream come true. Many early Olympians from this country came from elite universities because such student-athletes tended to be among the few who could manage the time and expense of overseas travel. “In the very early days, there was no official team, so you had to be rich or have your community support you,” said David Wallechinsky, president of the International Society of Olympic Historians. He said that Mr. Connolly’s church held a bake sale to help him raise the money to travel to Greece. Even after his Olympic triumph, Mr. Connolly was not embraced by Harvard until a half-century later, when it offered him an honorary doctorate. Mr. Connolly turned it down. Another star athlete at Harvard who wanted to compete in the 1896 Games was Ellery Clark. Harvard granted him a leave of absence, citing his high grades. But, Mr. Wallechinsky said, “he was told he could have the leave as long as he didn’t call attention to Harvard.” Mr. Clark went on to win both the high jump and the long jump, probably disappointing Harvard in the process. Correction :  An article last Saturday about the involvement of Boston’s colleges and universities in the city’s bid for the 2024 Summer Olympics misstated the job title of Tom Rutledge, who, with Andrew W. Lo, wrote about the ways universities can help solve the challenges in housing, transportation and financing for the Games. Rutledge is the head of fixed income origination at Magnetar Capital — not chief investment strategist at the AlphaSimplex Group, which is Mr. Lo’s position. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D 6 of the New York edition with the headline: An Old-College Try at an On-Campus Olympics . Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Related Coverage U.S.O.C. Chooses Boston as Candidate for 2024 Summer Olympics Jan. 8, 2015 Image Pursuing Games, Boston Jumps In With One Foot Jan. 9, 2015 Image Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              