   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Weddings Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Lauren Fonda, Jeffrey Gordinier Image Jan. 14, 2018 Lauren Elyse Fonda and Jeffrey Scott Gordinier were married Jan. 12 at the county courthouse in Santa Barbara, Calif. Alma Medina Figueroa, a deputy commissioner of civil marriages, officiated. Ms. Fonda, 34, is a managing partner and the chief brand officer of Becca, a creative marketing agency with offices in New York, where she is primarily based, and in Los Angeles. She graduated from N.Y.U. She is the daughter of Judy A. Fonda and Peter M. Fonda of Los Angeles. The bride’s father, now retired, was the founder of several law firms based in West Los Angeles specializing in insurance and medical malpractice defense. Her mother is a law professor emeritus at Loyola Law School Los Angeles. She previously taught at Southwestern Law School, and at the U.C.L.A. School of Law. Mr. Gordinier, 51, is the food and drinks editor of Esquire magazine in New York. He is the author of “X Saves the World” (Viking, 2008), and a co-editor of “Here She Comes Now” (Rare Bird Books, 2015), a collection of essays about women in music. He graduated from Princeton. He is a son of Susan L. Gordinier and Richard B. Gordinier of Laguna Beach, Calif. The groom’s mother, a member of the board of trustees of the Laguna Art Museum, is an artist whose oil paintings have been exhibited at the Forest & Ocean Gallery in Laguna Beach. His father retired as the chief executive of Packaging Plus in La Mirada, Calif. The groom’s first marriage ended in divorce. The couple, who were friends in New York for years, became romantically involved after going on a date in the summer of 2015 to the Whitney Museum of American Art. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page ST 12 of the New York edition with the headline: Lauren Fonda,  Jeffrey Gordinier . Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              