   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Weddings Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Chelsey Amer, Scott Group Image Credit Molly Quill at JoVon Photography Feb. 25, 2018 Chelsey Taylor Amer and Scott Benjamin Group were married Feb. 24 at the Village Club at Lake Success, an events space in Great Neck, N.Y. Rabbi Elizabeth Wood officiated. The bride, 29, is a dietitian in Manhattan. She also works on the marketing team for Healthie, a Manhattan-based management platform for health professionals and she has a food blog, “C it Nutritionally.” She graduated from the University of Michigan and received a master’s degree in clinical nutrition from N.Y.U. She is the daughter of Yvon M. Amer and Dr. Scott B. Amer of Rockville Centre, N.Y. Her father works in Hewlett, N.Y., as a pediatric dentist. Her mother is a special-education teacher at the Franklin Early Childhood Center in Hewlett. The groom, 30, is a vice president fo digital finance compliance at Goldman Sachs. He graduated cum laude from the University of Rochester and received a law degree cum laude from the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in Manhattan. He is a son of Joyce L. Group and Bruce S. Group of the Bronx. The groom’s mother is the principal of Riverdale Early Childhood Center, a special education preschool in the Bronx. His father is an accountant and financial consultant in the Bronx. The couple met in 2015 through JSwipe. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page ST 12 of the New York edition with the headline: Chelsey Amer,  Scott Group . Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              