   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Briefing Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by 17 Great Stories That Have Nothing to Do With Politics By  Anna Dubenko and Michelle L. Dozois March 24, 2017 Welcome to Our Picks, a guide to the best stuff to read, watch and listen to from around the internet. Check this space for the must-read long-form article, the next great podcast for your commute, the news-making tweetstorm. And yes, we’re also tooting our own horn here. We’ll share can’t-miss Times stories from the week and surface some gems you might have overlooked. We want to hear from you! Send us feedback about our selections to ourpicks@nytimes.com. Quick Reads Image Former football pro and Rhodes Scholar Myron Rolle during his time at Oxford University in 2009. Credit Andrew Testa for The New York Times • Scientists have discovered that there’s a species of parrots that can make each other laugh. According to a new study, kea birds in New Zealand are the first non-mammal known to demonstrate contagious emotion. Just the thought of parrots giggling together should hopefully lead to some more laughter around the internet. [ National Geographic ] • What’s more anxiety-inducing than being in the N.F.L. draft? For one former football pro and Rhodes Scholar, it’s waiting to be matched for a neurosurgery residency . [ Washington Post ] • The history of the zipper is a fascinating — and complicated — tale that winds through a World’s Fair, Rolling Stones album cover and into space. [ BBC ] • Eleven new types of cloud have been added to the most recent edition of the International Cloud Atlas. Even better? The atlas is available online for the first time here . [ Mashable ] • One way to celebrate the life of Chuck Berry is to watch these clips of the musical icon playing “Johnny B. Goode” with Bruce Springsteen, John Lennon, Eric Clapton and more. [ Open Culture ] Great Long Reads Image NBA players can’t get enough PB&J. Credit Hiroko Masuike/The New York Times • The NBA’s secret addiction? Peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. If you only have time for one long read this weekend, make it this one. [ ESPN ] • Some histories take half a century to be revealed. In the 1960s, no one knew that scores of black NYPD officers went undercover to infiltrate the city’s radical groups. Now, some of them have stepped forward to tell their stories and “set the record straight.” [ Esquire ] • You couldn’t script it: A reality television producer comes back from a near-death experience with a new donated hand that was surgically appended and a fresh outlook on life . [ LA Magazine ] • Entomologists , for those who need a refresher, are scientists who study insects. More and more, these bug detectives find themselves serving as “accidental specialists” treating people with a rare mental disorder called delusional parasitosis, the belief that you’re covered in bugs that aren’t really there. [ STAT ] From The New York Times Image The latest Character Study, Rosemary Romano, who is visually impaired, works at Helen Keller Services for the Blind. Credit Todd Heisler/The New York Times • In his latest Character Study , Corey Kilgannon profiles Rosemary Romano, 79, who has inspired generations of blind students to become office workers, teachers and lawyers (and is blind herself). • Sketch Guy has simple advice on how to turn your wishes into reality instead of regrets. • Melissa Clark has a recipe for malted milk fudge ripple ice cream , “a satiny ice cream that’s veined with fudge sauce to create gooey, bittersweet ripples.” •Meet a charming 3-year-old who will happily meet a good flight delay with a favorite phrase: “ Let’s talk about airport infrastructure .” • Take a tour of the Merriam-Webster word factory (including the basement, with its distinctly analog oddities ), and read lexicographer Kory Stamper’s take on three words nerds love to debate. And don’t miss Fran Lebowitz’s By the Book interview . What We’re Listening To • If you’re a fan of Megan Mullally and Nick Offerman , or if you just enjoy hilarious people with incredible chemistry, we recommend listening to the married couple’s interview with Alec Baldwin on his show “Here’s the Thing.” [ WNYC ] Related Coverage 11 Great Reads That Have Nothing to Do With Politics March 21, 2017 Image What We’re Reading March 21, 2017 Image 13 Great Stories That Have Nothing to Do With Politics March 17, 2017 Image Show All Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              