   Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Business Day Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by Newell to Sell Waddington for $2.3 Billion, Expands Divestiture Plan By  Reuters May 4, 2018 (Reuters) - Newell Brands Inc said on Friday it would sell its plastics packaging unit Waddington Group for $2.3 billion (1.7 billion pounds), and added more brands to a divestiture plan aimed at streamlining its operations and cutting costs. The sale of Waddington, which makes disposable cutlery and drinkware, is the first major divestiture after activist investors Starboard Value LP and Carl Icahn placed their nominees on the company's board last month. Newell's shares were up 6 percent at $28.29 in early trading. The stock took a beating after the company, which sells everything from Sharpie pens to Crock-Pot cookware, first laid out plans in January to explore options for several of its businesses. As part of its agreement with Icahn, Newell said in March its divestitures would bring in about $10 billion, ratcheting it up from its previous estimate of $6 billion. Newell said on Friday it would add Jostens and Pure Fishing to the list of brands it plans to sell, with the expanded divestiture plan ultimately reducing its net sales and workforce by more than a third. The moves come as the company's retailer customers such as Walmart Inc and Target Corp pare back inventories to cut costs as fewer shoppers visit brick-and-mortar stores. "All of these assets should command competitive multiples ... the sale of Waddington validates that belief," Chief Executive Officer Michael Polk said during a conference call. Newell said its divestiture process was "well underway" and expects to complete all transactions by the end of 2019 and become a company with net sales of about $9.5 billion in 2020. "Investors never wanted Newell to own Waddington and likely underestimated the multiple a sale could bring," Renaissance Macro Securities analyst April Scee said. The company also reported first-quarter sales that fell nearly 8 percent and missed analysts' estimates, mainly due to divestitures in 2017 and the liquidation of Toys 'R' Us. But normalised earnings of 34 cents per share beat the average estimate of 26 cents, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. "With continued organic weakness and conflict with Starboard ongoing, there's enough noise in the stock ... However, intended divestitures improve focus or help odds of successful restructuring," Scee said. The company also reaffirmed 2018 net sales and earnings forecast. (Reporting by Aishwarya Venugopal in Bengaluru; Writing by Siddharth Cavale; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta and Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS              